welcome to another episode of impact
theory today today my friends we are
talking about the age-old question
following your passion doing the thing
that you most want to do
and financial
[Music]
stability buckle up because this is
something that a lot of people think
about and the roads are windy so we're
gonna get into it right now how can i
get rid of the fear of following my
passion especially when the odds are
against me it's so hard to get over the
false notion of permanent security
okay
you're never going to get rid of the
fear of following your passion let's
start with that
as you said there is no such thing as
arriving in life and this is one of the
main ideas that i want people to really
grapple with as you think about how to
live your life well
is that there is no success big enough
that you can stand in that success and
that it will last forever really this is
a game of neurochemistry this is how you
feel this is what stresses you out this
is what you love this is an
ever-changing
roller coaster of
emotions and so understanding that you
could fail
at a job that you hate i think this was
jim carrey's uh advice to his father
that you could fail at a job that you
hate so you might as well at least try
the one that you're going to love now
that doesn't mean that we just
throw caution to the wind and we're
going to get more into that with some of
the subsequent questions but recognizing
that
you will never
reach a destination the only destination
in life is death and that is not a
worthy aim you shouldn't be thinking
about that or focusing on that or
thinking uh in terms of you know i just
need to get to 95 or 150 or whatever age
you're aiming at this really is a
question about how you want to feel
every day and once you understand that
that there are things that make you feel
alive those things you're passionate
about those things that give you more
energy than they take and then there are
things that take more energy than they
give and so you want to be very careful
to structure your life in a way that
you're doing something that gives you
more energy than it takes okay so we
know that we're never going to arrive
because we know that we're never going
to arrive we understand that this is
really just a game of emotional
management because we know that this is
a game of emotional management then what
we're asking is what is this thing that
gives us passion is it giving us the
neurochemistry that we want or
is the thing that we're passionate about
so high risk that even though it would
be fun in the abstract once i really
commit to that and make it my job it
stops having that same sense of giving
me energy and that's the tension this is
where people end up not being able to
make a decision because they have not
yet figured out how to optimize their
life in such a way that they can pursue
that thing that they're passionate about
without
that sense of joy and
excitement and that incredible thrill of
getting better at something that you
love doing and that even when it's hard
it's giving you that energy
because people can get lost in that they
get in there they think this is going to
be amazing that passion turns into a job
and then they lose the enthusiasm or
there's so much stress and pressure
around having to be successful at that
passion because you no longer have the
safety net of a job or whatever the case
may be
they don't recognize that
just pursuing something that's your
passion on paper isn't necessarily going
to solve that problem
that the problem fundamentally is that
life is an ever-changing rollercoaster
of emotion and the name of the game is
to
manage those emotions well okay so how
do we set it up if we have a passion and
we want to follow that how do we do it
well
so we know that we're never going to get
rid of the fear until we have
predictability and
[Music]
stability in terms of the financial
things that we need and i would say we
want to take care of that we want to
make sure that we have as much safety
and security on the financial side as we
can to give us the room to pursue the
things we're passionate about now the
fastest way to do that is to cut your
expenses to the quick if you don't have
an expensive lifestyle this becomes a
whole lot easier and one of the mistakes
that people make is they're living a
lifestyle that's beyond their means and
so they have to keep making this massive
monthly nut and so it becomes very
stressful to pursue that thing that they
love okay so we're either going to
recognize that we have to reduce our
expenses so that we don't have to worry
so much about money or if we already
have a job that pays well we have to
pursue our passion in nights and
weekends fashion such that we can build
that financial stability so that we can
then progress
okay so getting that stability there i
think is really important the people
that have the strongest home life
take the biggest risks and oftentimes
pursuing that passion is going to be a
risk so instead of trying to eliminate
the fear we're going to structure our
life in such a way that the things that
trigger the fear aren't
as high risk okay that's a big part of
this then we want to make sure that
we're structuring our passion in such a
way that it doesn't end up robbing us of
the joy so we want to experiment with
what our passion looks like as a
financial endeavor and i think that's a
very important experiment to run again
nights and weekends without making any
major life choices is going to be uh
very important now if we're in a
situation where the odds are stacked
against you this is where the first two
things that we just walked through
become incredibly important you want to
make sure that you've got your finances
taken care of so that if this fails that
it doesn't drag you down that will make
it not fun and again there's no
accomplishment so great that you can
stand in that forever so even if you
were to be successful you still have to
deal with the emotional management
so do not put yourself in this hyper
stressful situation
where it's you're always living for the
future because the success is not
guaranteed but the struggle is
so the key is to struggle
well
that's the answer get after it okay next
please address the different aspects of
transitioning from your regular job to
your dream job what mental strategies
should i employ how much financial
cushion is enough how much confidence do
you need to have in that new venture
let's work backwards so how much
confidence do you need to have in that
new venture so one taking the answers
that i just gave in the first question
you want to make sure that you're
structuring your life in such a way that
you don't have these huge financial
risks that you're not adding stress to
yourself in that way
the second thing is you don't need to
have a lot of confidence that the new
venture is going to work given your
current skill set and vision what you
need to have an obscene level of
confidence in what i call the arrogance
of belief is that you can get better
over time so if you put time and energy
into something you actually will get
better at it it's what i call the only
belief that matters
once you recognize that the human animal
is designed to grow and improve through
disciplined effort so you go in you're
practicing something very specifically
with the aim of improvement so you're
not just doing it randomly on repeat you
have a very structured approach to
improving it so once you have that and
you believe that if you have that
structured approach to improvement that
you actually will improve now you've got
the confidence that you need to go into
this and if you have structured your
life in such a way that you don't have
these huge financial responsibilities
looming over your head
now you're able to buy yourself the time
that you need in order to get good
enough to pull this off i'm always
telling people that the goal is to avoid
a mortality event you want to stay in
business long enough to be able to
figure it out then you can run what i
call the physics of progress if you
don't know about the physics of progress
make sure you sign up for impact theory
university
and by the way if you are a legendary
key holder you get impact theory
university for free so definitely check
that out
but getting into
that
loop where you are
working
improving yourself
buying yourself the time that you need
to improve running the physics of
progress so that you can iterate your
way to success now you're going to be
able to pull this off even if it's
difficult even if in the beginning you
don't have the current knowledge and
skill set that you're going to need so
many of the things that i've gone into
in my life when i first started it i
didn't have the ability to pull it off
yet and i just made sure that i bought
myself the time to figure it out in
terms of the how much cushion do you
need i i would say six months you need
to have at least six months a year if
you can pull it off if you are
hard-working disciplined you're going to
be able to find a job that will cover
your basic necessities within six months
for sure you may not find your dream job
but you will certainly be able to find a
job that will pay your bills so six
months to me is that bare minimum again
you can always cut your expenses back or
make more money those are your two
options save more money i should say
those are your two options all right now
as i'm transitioning from my regular job
to my dream job personally i would treat
them exactly the same because i'm always
trying to act as an entrepreneur right
so if i'm at a company i know that my
job description is just the things that
i need to get done quickly so that i can
find other things within the company to
take on his responsibility and blow
people away and that really is the path
to success within a company is to do
your job to an extraordinarily high
level of quality and then to help other
people to take on other responsibilities
and as you do that and perform well
there you will find that you'll be able
to move quickly through the company now
because i'm always doing that i'm going
to do that whether it's just the job
that i'm doing to pay my bills because i
know that that's the way one to love
what you're doing to progress to get
better every day like that's a huge
thing
and also to be able to
really get that progression through the
organization as well through
over-performance so whether it's my
dream job or a normal job i'm going to
be doing that so
this is just about hitting the ground
running
constantly getting better doing your job
extraordinarily well having some element
of that you're trying to be the best in
the world at and then going beyond
all right the mental strategies that i
employ the key thing that you're going
to have to avoid here is overwhelm so
you don't want to get into a situation
trying to go really hardcore put a lot
of pressure on yourself because this is
your dream job it's we're going to show
up every day we're going to play in a
sustainable manner we're going to act in
a way that we can do forever so i always
tell people that i average 93 hours a
week and the reason that it's 93 and not
94 is 93 is joyful and 94 is where i
start to get diminishing returns so
whatever your number is that's where
you're going to put yourself and you
want to work hard
smart and long hours if you want to
progress and get ahead but you have to
be very protective of your mental health
and so long hours needs to be defined
against where you stop having fun where
you stop being able to progress
in a joyful manner okay so joy is a huge
metric stress is a metric you need to be
watching these things because at the end
of the day the only thing that matters
is fulfillment
pursued in a joyful manner now that
doesn't mean that it's always going to
be up fulfillment covers that
difficulty that they're going to be hard
things i use the word joy instead of
happiness happiness to me feels far more
ephemeral joy is that thing that you get
out of doing something that really
matters and making progress towards that
so
there's no doubt that there are going to
be times where things are hard there's
no doubt that there are going to be
times where you start to feel that
overwhelm coming on you need to stop
that in its tracks
what i do is i always remind myself i
don't do overwhelm and i will literally
say that i don't do overwhelm now that
does not mean that i can carry an
infinite weight on my shoulders because
i cannot what it means is that i know
that in those moments when you begin to
feel yourself overwhelmed you need to
stop
you need to take a deep breath
you need to meditate
and you need to remember that doing less
is always an option
okay this is from the hustle porn guy
the guy that's like go hard 93 hours
here we go let's do it i'm telling you
right now i can only do that because i
exist within a framework where i know
that if things for too many days are not
joyful they're too stressful there's too
much
that doing less is always an option
that i can dial things back
and i like to remind myself that i
always keep detachment in my back pocket
now what i mean by that is the buddhist
idea of detachment that suffering comes
from desire it comes from wanting more
better bigger now i want all of those
things and i find that engagement is the
juice of life for me but i remember that
at any time i can detach from that
wanting that reaching and trying to do
more and because i have that in my back
pocket it allows me to relax in those
moments where i can feel overwhelmed
starting to build up i just remind
myself now is the time to meditate
now is the time to breathe from my
diaphragm
now is the time
where i least feel
like i have the time to relax
that i need to relax
and because i know that i can always
slow down
take a step back
i never get overwhelmed
and because of that i'm able to keep
going and keep performing
but if i just tried to run in the red
all the time
then i would stop having fun i would not
want to do it anymore and i would give
up and the only thing that i have that's
like a superpower is my relentlessness
and so i don't want that to be broken
because i'm over playing my hand and
going way too hard
what's your suggestion for leaving
corporate and pursuing my own business i
feel prepared to do the work it's just
upholding the house car and expenses
that are a huge risk i'm a single mother
with two children any advice will help
first of all thank you for your service
so having children is brutally difficult
and i am so grateful
that people are doing it that love their
kids and that are doing their best to
raise them that's amazing
so you're definitely in a difficult
situation here you've got a lot of
obligations so what i will say here is
that getting super efficient with your
time is going to be incredibly important
because we're going to
not leave our corporate job
not until we've got the bills taken care
of from the other options so if you're
starting your own business you want to
start it nights and weekends now this is
advice that i've taken myself so when we
started quest we were also running a
technology company so we ran the
technology company all day and then
nights and weekends we would work on
quest and we did that for a long time
until quest got its feet under it and so
taking that strategy while i know how
sexy and cool it is to say burn the
ships to the shore and come on there's
no turning back like it's do or die that
puts a level of stress and pressure on
you that is not going to be fun and if
it is true that like i said in the first
answer there is no accomplishment so
great that you can just stand in that
moment forever you will always and
forever have ups and downs moments of
success moments of failure victories
defeats moments where you look amazing
moments where you're embarrassed okay
they're all coming for you and there is
no get there and stay there forever so
this is about learning to do that dance
well it's about structuring your life so
that you can survive when it gets hard
or when you fail or when there is a
downturn right so you need to be really
thoughtful about how you structure that
especially given the fact that you have
kids and you don't have anybody else to
rely on so we're going to do nights and
weekends we're going to get hyper
efficient with our time that's
incredibly important and we're going to
spend whatever time we can allocate
because of course you're going to want
to allocate a bunch of time to your kids
but we're also going to need to find
time for you and in that time for you
we're going to focus on building your
new business now this is why it does not
make sense to build a business unless
you are passionate about it unless you
love the idea because if you love it and
you have a strong why there is a reason
why
you're doing all of this
then you'll be able to push through all
the hard times you'll be able to stick
it out you'll have that desire it will
energize you and all will be well
but given that
we're still working to make sure that
we're paying the bills we have the
tremendous responsibility of raising our
kids and keeping a roof over their head
and paying for the car and all of that
stuff so
when we take time away from our kids or
from just relaxing
we want to make sure that we're doing
something that energizes us that is
critically important so as you figure
out what that business is going to be
that you're growing make sure that it's
something that you would love doing
every day
even if you were failing
okay that's the key something that you
would love doing every day even if you
were failing if you do that now you've
really got a shot but if you don't and
you pick something that you think is
going to make you rich or it's going to
allow you to exit your own life or it's
going to allow you to pay for your kids
college tuition all of those things are
going to set you up for failure because
now you're not making decisions based on
what you love and what you would
struggle for and fight for you're making
decisions based on things you think are
going to bring you a lot of money and i
will just repeat the struggle is
guaranteed the success is not
the struggle is guaranteed
the success is a question mark you may
not ever make the kind of money off of
this that you want to
so make sure that it's something that
you believe in and you're passionate
about all right my friend i have a big
announcement my incredible and talented
wife lisa is about to launch her new
book radical confidence in it she has
managed to perfectly capture the process
of how to go from feeling lost and
insecure to taking control of your life
and doing amazing things despite feeling
fear sometimes a lot of fear now let me
tell you nobody knows lisa better than
me but when i read radical confidence
for the first time and heard her
describe what it was like for her to go
from having these big exciting dreams as
a kid to then as an adult scheduling her
life around the tv shows that she wanted
to watch or how lonely and isolated she
felt instead of pursuing her dreams it
was brutal for me i would never say
though that it was worth it for her to
go through all of that just so that she
could write something down that allows
others to avoid it but i will say that
at least she was able to capture the
strategies that she used to break out of
that rut find her voice and begin doing
incredible things despite her
insecurities and fears that she wasn't
going to be good enough to achieve great
things so while it hurts me to know the
dark place that lisa went through i
really am excited for people who are
going through something similar right
now to read this book radical confidence
is an instruction manual for how to
become the hero of your own life even
when you're scared to death look i know
better than just about anybody how easy
it is to get off track in life or to
just not have yet found your calling and
it's even easier for people to feel so
insecure and unprepared that they don't
even want to pursue the things that they
want but what lisa shows people in
radical confidence is that the radical
part is that you can accomplish
extraordinary things even when you feel
fear that's what radical confidence is
being afraid and unsure and having a
tool kit that allows you to still make
massive progress pre-order your copy
today because if you act now you can
claim the bonuses that lisa has created
for you at
radicalconfidence.com they're only
available if you pre-order so act now
then once you've done that we'll get
back to today's episode all right guys
read the book and get ready to be the
hero of your own life peace out
[Music]
if you went back to your 20 year old
self knowing everything you know now
what would you tell yourself to have a
fulfilling
career i would tell myself
to only do things that matter to me
in the beginning i didn't have a why
and i lost almost a decade of my life
pursuing something without a y and i
will just tell you that it's utterly
miserable
and once i finally said i'm never
pursuing anything ever again that
doesn't have a strong why then my life
got a whole lot better as a human as a
social creature i'm telling you right
now it is very easy to wake up
to fight
to go to war
for people that you love and care about
and to build something that's going to
help them that you can do
but when you're showing up just trying
to make money you're not going to make
it it is a brutal slog and no amount of
money in the world
can ever touch how you feel about
yourself
and i'm telling you the reason that i
harp on fulfillment all the time is the
formula for fulfillment is very simple
you're going to work very hard
to gain a set of skills
that matter to you
that are exciting to you
in service of a goal that's exciting and
honorable
and by honorable i mean that it serves
not only you but other people
now if you're doing all of that
now you're going to have that energy
that you need to keep going to keep
fighting to keep pursuing it if you
don't have that it really becomes
miserable and since at the end of the
day the only thing that matters is
joyful fulfillment i wish that i could
have spared myself that decade so i
would very much
focus myself on that idea i was so
hardcore about wanting to get rich so
that i could go
build the thing that i wanted to build
but i didn't even know why i wanted to
build a film studio
i just knew i loved film
that was it
but even that
would have been way too hard
to do without a reason why i wanted to
do it
so creating is amazing but i know plenty
of people that are in the film industry
that don't control their own destiny
that are extraordinarily frustrated so
even this thing that they love so much
there are so many other people that are
involved with it that even that can be a
very difficult path so you better have a
really compelling reason why you want to
tell those stories because if you have
that reason when things are hard and
you're asking yourself why the hell am i
doing this what is the point
that you have an extraordinary answer
and if you have not yet read the book
man's search for meaning by victor
frankl
read it in fact don't even finish this
video
go read man's search for meaning by
viktor frankl it is
extraordinarily important
to
get those ideas in your mind this was
somebody who
survived auschwitz
who watched this whole family
be destroyed
and
realized that the only way to make it
through what he was going through
was to have meaning and purpose
to give his suffering
meaning
now once the suffering had meaning he
could endure it there's a great
nietzsche quote
whoever has a strong enough why can
endure almost any how
you need to know why you're doing this
stuff you need to know why you're
fighting once you know that
everything gets a whole lot easier but
if you don't know that
you will give up
i would anchor myself around that
i came to the idea but it took me way
too long
are humans wired to be subservient
making it so hard for us to commit and
move towards what matters to us what
practices help you step into the fire
and help you consistently embody your
highest self
are humans wired to be subservient
no
but
we all have different personality types
i've heard it said
that humans are 50 percent hardwired
meaning unchangeable and 50 malleable
to live life well
you need to recognize both of those
things in yourself
so what do you like the parts that are
hardwired that are going to be immutable
or close to it
and once you understand that then you
can focus on the 50 that's malleable to
make the adjustments that you need in
order to be able to move towards your
goals
now when you
recognize that you may
have a personality type that makes you
better suited to be a
number two and number three and number
four whatever in a company rather than
to be the ceo
if you can actually get comfortable with
that then you can begin to craft your
life in a way that's going to give you
energy but when you buy into
narratives around what people are
supposed to want what is cool then all
of a sudden you find yourself crafting a
life for yourself that ends up becoming
a torture chamber so
it's pretty fascinating as people get
older they tend towards
growing more peaceful with what they're
really like
now
that's about the 50
that's hardwired
i'm always saddened
when people ignore the fact that they
have this massive
part of them that they can change and
that their life would be unrecognizable
if they did it but to err on either side
is to blind yourself to a fundamental
truth that failing to acknowledge will
worsen your life tremendously so
don't buy into a narrative that you need
to run your own business or that you
need to be an entrepreneur or anything
like that
what you want to figure out is where
would you love existing where can you
chase fulfillment the hardest where can
you engage with your passions most
deeply
that's the question and if that means
that you are
a mid-level engineer in fact one of the
most fascinating examples of this
steve wozniak okay co-founder of apple
computer with steve jobs
steve wanted to be an engineer he never
wanted to get to the point where he was
like the president of the company and
dealing with business meetings all day
he wanted to engineer he wanted to be in
there in the hardware writing the code
that was the thing that gave him juice
and the fact that he had the
self-awareness to understand i don't
want you to keep promoting me until i'm
running the company i want to be here as
an engineer in the thick of this solving
these problems that is going to be a
joyful life for me
so recognizing
what it is that you actually want what
speaks to your personality where are you
going to be most energized where are you
going to be the most alive
then put yourself there
and then pursue it with everything that
you have in a joyful way where progress
is a key and that you can as you say
step into the fire
but i want to make sure that people
aren't blinding themselves to what they
really want the people are taking the
time to develop that self-awareness if
you can't say in a single sentence what
really fills your tank what gives you
that energy what makes you feel
alive
if you can't say that in a single
sentence you're in trouble
so journal
write about it
think about it
work on it
because
getting that right
is
critically important and what i see a
lot of times is people have a feeling
they never stop to ask what that feeling
is they never stop to ask where it came
from what it means they just have a
feeling that they should be doing x y z
thing
and they go pursue it sometimes with
their head down for a very long period
of time i know i did that
sometimes people never look up and they
spend their whole career pursuing
something that they don't love they
don't care about because they think
they're supposed to either the world has
given them that idea right we're living
through a time where being an
entrepreneur now is cool
and certainly not everybody is going to
enjoy that
we're
a social animal with a competence
hierarchy and progress feels awesome and
so often times people want to just
progress blindly without thinking about
do i need to progress within the
hierarchy of a company or do i just need
to get better at something so that i can
do things that other people can't do
because it's very different if you
gave steve wozniak the lowest you called
him the janitor but he creates the next
piece of game-changing technology
does his title matter or did it matter
to him that he got so good that he could
actually create that groundbreaking
piece of technology
now if you like the climb amazing climb
but if the climb is misery and
you're finding yourself in progressively
jobs that suit you worse which is why
they say that people rise to the level
of their incompetence because you end up
getting promoted until you get to that
job that you kind of suck at and then
you just stop
so if you know what you
love and want and where you fit in and
whether you want to be the person that's
leading or whether you want to be in a
pack and part of a community
figure that out about yourself
and then figure out how within that
framework what do i need to improve to
chase to do
all the things that i want to do that
make me feel alive
that's the key
that's how you embody your highest self
be honest about the 50
and then be honest about the 50 that you
can change
because your life will be unrecognizable
and i think
tony robbins is right that a
foundational pillar to human happiness
is progress
all right
i will leave you with that
that my friends is how to think about
passion versus chasing that dream taking
risks financial stability it's all
important and while i would love to just
tell you to ignite the ships on the
shore and storm the castle the reality
is that most people that do that end up
dying so one make sure that the castle
that you're trying to storm is the right
castle and that the mere act of trying
to storm it is going to be fun
that's a huge part of this and then do
everything you can to protect your
downside and to make sure that your
finances are taken care of all right
everybody with that i bid you i do until
next time my friends by the way if you
haven't already be sure to subscribe and
until next time my friends be legendary